well qatar's prime minister has spoken
to reporters in Doha about the prospect
of a deal to release some hostages it's
not really about you know a specific
thing that you know I can comment yes or
no about it but it's uh the challenges
that remains in in the negotiations are
very minor compared to the bigger CH
challenges they are more logistical they
are more practical and I believe that uh
with the willingness of both parties to
engage and to have this deal uh moving
we can we can reach there we are uh
we've been focused in the past four five
weeks now in in in these negotiations
we've been we tried every way all
possible ways in order to ensure uh uh
that civilians uh are released and we
treat all human beings are the same
civilians are civilians whether they are
from the Israeli side or the Palestinian
side
as as we mentioned in in in several
occasions uh our focus is to make sure
that there relas is happening safely and
there are also the humanitarian issues
of the Gaza STP to be addressed in in
that that was qatar's prime minister
there well I'm joined now in the studio
by our Middle East Sebastian user
Sebastian tell us more about what's been
said about a potential hostage deal what
we were hearing there from a prime
minister who also serves as their
foreign minister is more upbeat than
we've heard for several days in public
at least about what's going on and he's
saying that the challenges that remain
about trying to get this deal done and
this is only a partial deal remember
this is not a deal obviously for the
full number of hostages to be released
but that they are now they're logistical
they're practical details they're very
minor I mean in such a sensitive deal as
this even logistical and practical
details I would suggest could still be a
major BL block what he's saying I think
also the timing of it is interesting we
had a Washington Post article uh just uh
in the past 24 hours suggesting that a
deal is almost done uh that essentially
the um the way that it will be managed
would be 50 hostages for his women and
children would be released and in return
Israel would uh provide a 5day ceasefire
now in previous um leaks that we've had
about what a deal might be with the
Qatari Med iation this is Hamas Israel
and the us all very much involved in
this had been I think for a lesser
amount of time for the ceasefire 3 days
I think was a previous and also Hamas
had been demanding that there would be
an exchange of prisoners that Israel had
as well Palestinian women and
Palestinian children that doesn't seem
to be the case at the moment so I mean
he didn't say that it's imminent he
didn't say you know expect news of this
in the next day or two but I think you
know this all looks for choreography
looks even after white house uh denial
essentially saying that there's no deal
that's actually been done yet but
they're working towards it and the
Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu also in
a sense talking it down I think we are
inevitably moving towards this I think
everything kind of is merging to make
this seem the likeliest option within
the next days next weeks okay Sebastian
thank you very much